.\"  SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0-or-later
.\"
.\"  Copyright (C) 2021, Western Digital Corporation or its affiliates.
.\"  Written by Damien Le Moal <damien.lemoal@wdc.com>
.\"
.TH cdladm 8 "Aug 20 2021"
.SH NAME
cdladm \- Manage command duration limit pages

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cdladm
[
.B \-h|\-\-help
]
.sp
.B cdladm
[
.B \-\-version
]
.sp
.B cdladm
.I command
[
.B options
]
.I device

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cdladm
is used to inspect and modify command duration limits descriptor pages of devices
supporting the command duration limits feature. \fIdevice\fP specifies the device
file path of the target device to operate on. The device file path may point
either to a block device file or to the device SG node file.
\fBcdladm\fR returns 0 on success and 1 in case of error.

.SH COMMANDS

.TP
\fBinfo\fR
Display device and system information about command duration limits support.

.TP
\fBlist\fR
List the command duration limits descriptor pages supported by the target device.

.TP
\fBshow\fR
Display on screen the command duration limits descriptors of one or all supported
pages of the target device. The option \fB\-\-page\fR can be used to specify a
single page to display.

.TP
\fBclear\fR
Clear (reset) the command duration limits descriptors of one or all supported
pages of the target device. The option \fB\-\-page\fR can be used to specify a
single page to clear.

.TP
\fBsave\fR
Save to a file one or all command duration limits page of the target device.
The option \fB\-\-page\fR must be used to specify the target page to save. If
\fB\-\-file\fR is used, the page is saved to the specified file path. Otherwise,
the page is saved to the file named <device name>-<page name>.cdl in the
current working directory. If \fB\-\-page\fR is not used, the option
\fB\-\-file\fR is ignored and all supported pages are saved using the default
file name for each page.

.TP
\fBupload\fR
Upload to the target device a modified command duration limit page. The option
\fB\-\-file\fR must be used to specify the path of the file containing the page
data. The format of the page file must be identical to the format of the file
created with the \fBsave\fR command. If the option \fB--permanent\fR is used,
the descriptor page will be saved on the device in non volatile memory. Otherwise,
the upload will only update the drive current page values and changes to the page
will be lost on a device power cycle.

.TP
\fBenable\fR
Enable command duration limits.

.TP
\fBdisable\fR
Disable command duration limits.

.TP
\fBenable-highpri\fR
Enable the high priority enhancement feature. This applies only to ATA devices
supporting this feature, as reported using the \fBinfo\fR command. CDL must be
disabled before executing this command. Enabling CDL with the \fBenable\fR
command will disable the high priority enhancement feature.

.TP
\fBdisable-highpri\fR
Disable the high priority enhancement feature. This applies only to ATA devices 
supporting this feature, as reported using the \fBinfo\fR command.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
Display \fBcdladm\R version and exit.

.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display a short usage message and exit.

.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Verbose output (for debugging).

.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-force-ata\fR
Force the use of ATA passthrough commands for ATA devices connected to SAS host
adapters. This allows bypassing the adapter SCSI-to-ATA translation layer when
CDL is not supported by the adapter firmware.

.TP
.BI \-\-page " page_name"
Specify the name of a page to operate on. \fIpage_name\fR can be "A", "B", "T2A"
or "T2B". This option can be used with the commands \fBshow\fR, \fBclear\fR,
\fBsave\fR and \fBstats-show\fR.

.TP
.BI \-\-file " page_file"
Specify the path of the page file to use. This option can be used with the
command \fBsave\fR and is mandatory with the command \fBupload\fR.

.TP
.BI \-\-permanent
This option can only be used in combination with the \fBupload\fR command
to specify that the descriptor page must be permently saved on the device, as
opposed to temporarily stored in volatile memory.

.TP
.BI \-\-raw
Show the raw values of the CDL pages and statistics fields. This option
applies only to the \fBshow\fR and \fBstats-show\fR commands.

.TP
.BI \-\-force\-dev
Force enabling and disabling the CDL feature directly on the device without
enabling/disabling the system support. This option can only be used in
combination with the \fBenable\fR and \fBdisable\fR commands and is reserved
for testing. It should not be specified under normal use of \fBcdladm\fR.

.SH AUTHOR
This version of \fBcdladm\fR was written by Damien Le Moal.

.SH AVAILABILITY
.B cdladm
is available from https://github.com/westerndigitalcorporation/cdl-tools
